###### Ritsu Okazaki IBDP Year 1 Computer Science 1 HL Internal Assessment
# Criteria A
## Problem definition:
The leader of Tech Crew; lighting and audio crew for school dance and theater performances, has claimed that he has difficulties while playing audio and changing lights corresponding to the theater/dance scripts. For the seamless execution of performances, it is important for them that they promptly follow the instructions on the scripts that the performers provide prior to the practices. Most commonly received formats of tech scripts are online documents and paper, which the leader claims are difficult for the members to follow the cues once they lose track. For example, dance performances require consecutive rapid changes in lighting, which makes the problem prominent especially. Additionally, tech performance requires cooperation of multiple members with different roles, which the leader claims is hard to facilitate with only one document. He claims that using documents for this purpose might be inherently difficult because of the absence of a cursor for cues. As for audio, the audio software that they currently use has instabilities with different audio output devices. Also, the leader reported that the software has far more features than the crew require for their production, which is obfuscating the process. As a result, the crew’s performance is sometimes hindered regardless of the passion and effort by the members for their adoption of document-style scripts.

## Proposed solution:
I propose to create a local GUI application using python suitable for the client's situation. A GUI will be intuitive to use in a production environment compared to text-based UI. A GUI service can also be achieved by a website, but the offline availability and independence on browsers makes a local software appropriate for consistent operation during performances. I propose to use Python because Python is a widely used programming language that is compatible for most devices. Python's readability makes it easier for other developers that may modify or expand the software in the future to understand the code and apply changes. C is also an option, but codes are easier to get obfuscated. Despite Python being slower to process than compiled languages like C or C++, the operation speed will be sufficient using Python. I propose to use an open-source UI toolkit for Python called KivyMD to create the GUI. First, KivyMD has cross-platform compatibility, which increases the hardware flexibility for our client and his team. Also, KivyMD has a visually appealing style and convenient widgets based on Google Material Design, increasing comfort and usability for the client. Flutter and Tkinter are alternatives, but Flutter does not have compatibility with PC and Mac, while Tkinter has limited UI to achieve the success criteria. Finally, for the database, I propose to use SQLite, an open source database management system. The open-source-nature of SQLite makes it cost effective, and also makes it resourceful for developers who might modify or extend the application. SQLite requires small time and hardware requirements for processing, which is ideal for an application operating in a production environment.

## Success Criteria:
1. The user can navigate through cues either by time lapse or on-click in the “playback” screen _[issue solved: playback screen shows cues in order by interactable UI]_
2. The user can enter cues by FIFO and edit/delete them in the “edit” screen, which will be displayed on the “playback” screen _[issue solved: data edited in the edit screen will be fed to playback screen]_
3. The user can clearly see and distinguish the script portion and the light/audio portion of the cues in the “playback” screen _[issue solved: playback screen clearly shows cues in genre-by-genre in GUI]_
4. The user can assign each cue to a person in the “edit” screen and display separately in different columns in the “playback” screen _[issue solved: playback screen clearly shows genre assignment to people's names in GUI]_
5. In the “save” screen, the user can save/call playbacks that they created in the “edit” screen _[issue solved: data edited in the edit screen will be saved to database as well as CSV file which is exportable]_
6. The user can authenticate themselves through sign-up/login in the “login” screen to personalize their saved playbacks _[issue solved: login screen authenticates users by username and password]_
